Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Applying Auto Scaling. In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about AWS Auto Scaling. So let's get started.
AWS Auto Scaling is a service that does exactly what it says in the name.
It automatically scales your EC2 servers, which run your applications.
Auto Scaling allows you to scale your instance capacity automatically,
according to your defined conditions.
You can increase the amount of instances you have running during demand spikes
and decrease them when you don't need them. It's not only for high availability,
but cost savings too. Let's take a look at how it works.
What we have to do is create something called an auto scaling group,
in which instances will be associated with.
We have to specify a minimum size, which in this case is 1.
This means we always need at least 1 instance running.
Then we have a desired capacity of 2.
This is the amount of instances that you want to usually be running.
You can use CloudWatch alarms to modify this value,
based on data you are tracking such as CPU or Ram usage too.
We can then scale out as needed,
which means adding more EC2 instances to the pool of servers being accessed by
your customers. We can do this until we hit our maximum size.
This is the most instances that we will ever have running in the auto scaling
group. A very simple concept, but extremely powerful,
and AWS also have something called a load balancer,
which is what will automatically distribute the connections to these servers as
they appear and disappear automatically.
So this of course results in high availability,
as you're scaling automatically,
and your application should never be unavailable to your customer.
It has better fault tolerance as your application will be spread across multiple
servers instead of a single point of failure,
and you also get better cost management.
Where servers won't be used if there's no demand for them.
You just pay for what you require at any point in time.
Auto scaling has huge benefits across AWS.
EC2 isn't the only kind of auto scaling supported either.
Dynamo DB tables and indexes can be autoscaled.
As well as Amazon Aurora replicas,
which is a database service that AWS provides. If you recall,
in the previous lecture where I spoke about CloudWatch custom metrics,
you can even auto scale using those too. For some strange reason,
if you want to automatically scale up to 10 AC EC2 servers
in your auto scaling group, due to the fact that someone got his password wrong,
when trying to SSH to your server 3 times in a five minute period,
you can do that. I'm not sure why you would want to, but it's possible.
So in a nutshell, that's AWS Auto Scaling, how it applies to AWS.
Thank you for watching. If you have any questions, please let me know.
Otherwise, feel free to move on.