Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Comparing CodeGuru. In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about Amazon CodeGuru. So let's.
Get started. When programmers.
Write code, it usually goes through a code review process with a manager,
or a colleague to ensure that the code works well.
It doesn't introduce any security vulnerabilities or bugs to your application,
but this is time consuming,
and sometimes people aren't always available to do code reviews for a bunch of
different reasons.
AWS have aimed to make this process simpler with Amazon CodeGuru,
which is a service that uses machine learning to help review code and even helps
optimize your application performance.
It's not a complete replacement for code review,
but it can help lighten the load. Now it not only helps to review code.
It can also detect critical issues, security, vulnerabilities,
and hard to find bugs that another programmer might not even pick up during a
code review. CodeGuru has two main features.
There's CodeGuru Profiler, and the CodeGuru.
Reviewer.
Amazon CodeGuru Profiler is a tool that analyzes your code and will help you
identify the expensive lines. By expensive in this context,
I'm talking about the lines of code, which use the most CPU power to execute,
and it provides visualizations and recommendations on how to fix the expensive
code too.
You can see in this image just by moving the mouse over a section of the
analysis, it predicts that this piece of code will cost you
$1,765 a year.
With this visualized you're in a much better position to do something about
fixing it.
CodeGuru Profiler really allows you to understand the run-time behavior of the
applications,
how they interact with the CPU utilization of the system they're running on,
and how latency may be introduced to your application due to poorly structured
code.
You receive recommendations from the service as to how you can remediate the
issues as well. It doesn't simply tell you there's a problem.
It intelligently explains how you might be able to fix it.
Amazon CodeGuru Reviewer on the other hand,
uses machine learning to identify critical issues and possibly hard to
find bugs in your code repositories,
which helps you improve the overall quality.
It detects deviation from best practices and will flag common issues that it
finds as well,
which lets you fix them before they cause more problems at a later date.
It doesn't just show you the information in the AWS console either.
It links right into your code repository and will show you the exact lines of
codes it's advising you about. CodeGuru Reviewer has some awesome benefits.
In fact, it identifies code quality issues in nine broad categories,
AWS best practices, Java best practices, concurrency,
deadlocks, resource leaks, sensitive information leaks,
common code bugs, code cloning and input validation.
The fact that this can be automated is a huge benefit,
or addition to any manual review systems,
that your organization may have in place.
It can really help an organization to step up the overall quality of their code,
reduce expensive CPU cycles and just generally produce better code.
And with machine learning involved,
the suggestions on how to improve your code and detect issues,
are just going to get better and better as time goes on. All right,
I hope you enjoyed learning about Amazon CodeGuru. Thanks for watching.
If you have any questions, please let me know. Otherwise feel free to move on.