Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Defining Databases.
In this lesson, we're going to learn all about
the AWS database pillar.
So let's get started.
Databases in their simplest form
are an organized collection of data.
The data is stored electronically
and accessed from a computer system,
and there's lots of different kinds of databases.
And they differ due to how they're designed,
how they store the data,
and how the data is retrieved from them.
AWS currently has more than 15 different database engines
of all different types,
including relational, key-value, in-memory,
document, graph, time series, wide column,
and ledger databases.
They all work differently and they all have specific
use cases where they are the right database for the job.
They're all fully managed.
So you don't have to set up your own servers
or patch the software.
They're secure and they're highly available,
meaning they run across multiple regions,
so they won't go offline
if there's an issue in one of the data centers.
Let's take a look at the databases that AWS has on offer.
Regarding relational databases,
and these are aimed at traditional applications,
enterprise resource planning,
customer relationship management, and e-commerce.
Amazon Aurora is a MySQL and PostgreSQL compatible database
built for the cloud.
Amazon Relational Database Service, or RDS,
is a service to make it easy to set up, use, and scale
multiple database engines.
And Amazon Redshift is a cloud database warehouse service.
Regarding key value databases,
and these are aimed at high traffic web applications,
e-commerce systems, and gaming applications.
We have Amazon DynamoDB, a very fast and flexible,
NoSQL database for any scale.
Regarding in-memory databases,
we have Amazon ElastiCache for Redis and Memcached.
And this is used for caching, session management,
gaming leaderboards, and geospatial applications.
Regarding document databases,
and these are for content management, catalogs,
and user profiles.
Amazon DocumentDB, which is a MongoDB compatible,
fast, and scalable highly available document database.
There's so many use cases that AWS cover
with just these database services,
and they all have extensive configuration possibility
within them too.
The Amazon Relational Database Service, RDS,
actually has 6 different database engines
just available in that single service.
I'll be talking more about these databases in detail
in the next few lessons.
So I'll finish up here.
Thanks for watching.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
Otherwise, feel free to move on to the next lesson.