Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to discussing DynamoDB.
In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about Amazon DynamoDB.
So let's get started.
In the previous lesson, we discussed RDS,
which is a relational database, which could be searched
with a structured query language known as SQL.
Amazon DynamoDB is a bit different
and it's immediately apparent
because it's referred to as a NoSQL database service.
The no in NoSQL can both refer to the fact that the data
is retrieved differently than a relational database.
So it doesn't use SQL,
but the no can also mean not only SQL
because some NoSQL databases
actually do support SQL-like queries to get their data.
It's a little bit confusing,
but not something you should worry about.
So about DynamoDB itself,
AWS themselves refer to DynamoDB
as a key-value document database,
which delivers single digit millisecond performance
at any scale.
A key-value database is a database
that stores a key and a related value, let's take a look.
In this example image table,
we actually have a few keys in this database
and a few attributes.
You can see one key is book
and the 3 attributes are about the book.
So the name, the author, and the year published.
Yet in the album, it only has 2 attributes,
the name and the artist.
In a relational database, this isn't possible.
You need to fill out all attributes correctly
and they must match.
In a NoSQL database, you can just store
the data you require and not worry
about matching the other data in the table.
This gives you flexibility in both what you're writing
and for future use of the database,
where you might want to store new information,
it doesn't require you to patch
or migrate the whole thing.
And it was built
to handle really big internet traffic websites
like amazon.com on big sales days like Prime Day.
It's fully managed.
It works in multiple regions and is very durable.
It has built-in security, backup, and restore.
It can handle more than 10 trillion requests per day,
and supports peaks
of more than 20 million requests per second.
You can see just from this,
DynamoDB is a pretty serious database
for serious internet companies.
So it has huge performance at scale,
there are no servers to manage and it's ready
for any large enterprise to use.
It also works really well with serverless applications.
If you recall, when I discussed AWS Lambda
in a previous lecture,
AWS Lambda and DynamoDB go hand in hand to store
and process data without requiring any service.
It's also great for storing mobile application data,
as it's fast enough to store real time updates
from mobile and web applications too,
things that would be quite challenging
with a traditional database are solved
with really fast and powerful features of Amazon DynamoDB.
Advertising, gaming, retail, banking, and finance,
media and entertainment, software,
and of course, the internet.
All of them have benefited from DynamoDB.
AWS claim that it handles
more than 1 trillion requests per day,
and more than 100,000 customers are using it.
So it must be doing something right.
Alright, thanks for listening.
If you have any questions, please let me know,
otherwise, feel free to move on to the next lesson.