Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to Explaining EFS. In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about Amazon Elastic File System, so let's get started.
Amazon Elastic.
File System is another fully managed service which provides NFS
shared file system storage for the linux virtual machines in Amazon EC2.
NFS refers to network file system,
a protocol that allows you to access files and directories that aren't on your
system, but are connected to your network. Why would you do this?
Well, some companies have to process large amounts of data with their EC2
instances, and it's difficult to analyze data stored in S3,
so sometimes the data has to be stored on the machines doing the actual
analysis, and that's where EFS shines.
Because multiple servers can access the EFS file system,
at the same time.
Thousands of machines can connect to the same volume and process the data
seamlessly. It's highly available and durable too.
All of your files are automatically stored across multiple availability zones in
a region to prevent any data loss.
And because of the service is designed this way,
EFS has built in protection from an availability zone outage,
as well as any system, hard disk or even network failures.
It also has.
2 Different storage classes,
a standard and an infrequent access storage class.
You can enable a function called EFS Lifecycle Management and choose an aging
off policy,
where your files will be moved to the infrequent access storage class
automatically after 7, 14, 30, 60 or 90 days automatically,
and this can save you loads of money, if you know,
you don't have to access all of your files all of the time.
Some of the additional magic of EFS is that it automatically grows and shrinks
as you add and remove files taking away the need for
disk management you would normally have with hard disks attached to your virtual
machines. And finally,
encryption is also enabled by default when you create an EFS file system,
allowing you to encrypt the files that are stored in your volumes,
keeping them all secure and away from prying eyes.
So that's a fairly quick and simple summary for a simple service.
Amazon EFS,
the service that lets you connect to file systems via the network with your
Linux EC2 servers. Thank you for watching. If you have any questions,
please let me know. Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.