Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Learning Lambda. In this lesson,
we're going to learn what Lambda is. AWS Lambda.
It's something very close to our hearts here at A Cloud Guru,
because it kicked off the serverless computing craze.
What's serverless computing? Well it's compute, but without servers.
Let me elaborate. Say you have a piece of code you want to run.
A really simple example.
Maybe you have a big following on Twitter and your main topic is cryptocurrency,
and you want to automatically send out a tweet every day that
posts the Bitcoin to US dollar conversion rate.
Let's think of how we would create this from absolutely nothing.
You're in an empty room with a laptop and that's it,
but you don't keep your laptop on 24 hours a day, so you need a server.
You might look at Amazon EC2 and start up a virtual server.
Then you pick one of the Linux ones, login and install a programming language.
Let's say Python or nodeJS. Then you write your code.
You get it all working.
You set up a scheduled job to run that code every day at 9:00 AM.
And you have to maintain a virtual EC2 machine.
You have to pay for it to run 24/7 or some kind of schedule where it
automatically turns on at 8:55 AM runs your tasks, post the tweet,
and then shuts down at 9:01 AM.
Then you're also paying for hard disk storage network,
traffic and everything else involved.
You're maintaining the Linux operating system,
which requires kernel and security patches.
You're also maintaining Python and all of its patches and updates as well.
And that's a lot of work. There is an easier way,
and that way is with AWS Lambda.
AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service,
which runs your programming code in response to events.
And that event could be a timer that triggers it,
or someone visits a certain part of your website, or they upload an image to it,
and so on. There's lots of different events that you can use.
AWS Lambda runs the programming code somewhere. No one knows where, well,
maybe the people at AWS who created it, but that's the point.
There are no servers for you to install, maintain, and pay for.
All you have to do is put your code in the AWS Lambda website or
upload it using some command line tools, and it's there.
Available for you to run whenever required.
There's a lots of notable examples of the power of Lambda.
Say you run an image sharing website where people post photos upon
upload, you can trigger some Lambda to automatically resize all the photos.
So you aren't using too much storage space in your cloud storage. Or,
maybe you want thumbnails created of all the images instantly as well,
all completely automatic with Lambda.
Actually a really great example is how this video you're watching now came to
be.
I finished recording this lesson and I uploaded it into the A Cloud Guru website
that our instructors and upon uploading a Lambda function was triggered,
which automatically transcoded the video into a bunch of different formats,
tailored for desktop and mobile viewers. All controlled by Lambda.
All completely automatic. You probably don't notice it,
but Lambda is everywhere these days doing tasks,
small and big making every AWS web programmers life easier.
And the billing you're charged by the millisecond and the price changes
depending on how much ram that you choose to use.
I won't go into the numbers because the calculations of compute charges and
request charges can take some effort,
but a very quick example is that if your Lambda uses 128
megabytes of memory and you execute it 30 million times in one
month, it will end up costing you about $11.63 a month.
That is super cheap. Lambda is a super powerful service,
and if you can harness its power, it can save you both time and money.
All right. Thank you for watching. If you have any questions,
please let me know. Otherwise feel free to move on.