Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Managing Machine Learning. In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about our final pillar in AWS,
which is machine learning.
We'll also take a look at a few of its related AWS services.
So let's get started. Now,
I'm going to do my very best to explain what machine learning is in the simplest
way I can.
Machine learning is a type of artificial intelligence where you can write
programs that learn from the data provided to it,
but it also remembers its own results of processing that data,
and that allows it to improve its own accuracy over
time without being modified or told to do so. So in essence,
the program learns by running itself over and over again,
and that's why it has the name machine learning.
Let me give you an example to explain this.
Consider writing a program that plays a side scrolling computer game for you.
The game allows you to move left and right, and jump. That's it.
The first time it plays, it might run to the right, and then fall down a hole.
It records which way it ran, how far it got, and how long it ran for.
The next time it runs before it falls down the hole, it tries to jump.
This works and it keeps going until it runs into an enemy.
It records how far it moved, a new record, and what actions it took.
It has now learned that jumping just before the hole makes it survive longer.
This continues, on and on,
until the program eventually will learn how to complete the game without dying.
It used the same program, over and over to try different cases,
of when and where to jump, when to move left, and when to move right,
and when to stop moving to see which movements gave it the biggest success.
It might not even be simply jumping at different times.
The learning algorithm might detect if there's water on the ground coming up and
then jump,
or maybe it figures out the color of the floor changes from gray to blue,
so it jumps then, and then it gave it a positive result with a further run.
It might do the same thing when it detects a different color in front of it,
instead of on the ground, say, a red enemy.
Figuring out how to play like this means this program actually learns to play
the game and will actually be able to play any level,
not just the one that you give it to train on.
This is a very simple explanation of machine learning.
There are so many industries now using machine learning for different things.
From self-driving cars, smart watches which make sure you stay healthy,
banks determining if you can get credit, social media rankings, agriculture,
targeted email, fashion trends, the possibilities are endless.
Now that you have an understanding of machine learning,
let's take a look at what machine learning products AWS has on offer,
and there are quite a lot of them that use machine learning to achieve
remarkable things. In regards to AI services,
and these are services that let you add intelligence to your applications,
Amazon Kendra will give your customer's intelligent search,
and Amazon Personalize is a service to give personalized recommendations to
your customers. There are business metrics analysis services.
Amazon Lookout for Metrics is a service to automatically detect unexpected
changes in things like revenue performance and customer retention,
and help you identify their root cause.
Amazon Forecast is a service to help you build accurate forecasting models. And
Amazon Fraud Detector is a service to identify potentially fraudulent online
activities. There are services which involve seeing things that,
is Vision Services.
There are a few services currently in development,
but Amazon Rekognition is the most popular and it's a service to analyze
images and videos and extract meaning from them,
and I'll be talking about this one more in our next lecture. And finally,
we have language services.
Amazon Polly is a service to turn text into lifelike speech.
Amazon Transcribe is a service to add high-quality speech-to-text
translations to your applications.
And Amazon Lex is a service to easily build conversational agents or chat
bots. As you can see,
the machine learning services offered at AWS is massive,
and this is just the start of an ever-growing industry.
In the following lessons we're going to look at a few more of these services in
detail, so thank you for watching. If you have any questions,
please let me know. Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.