Hello Cloud Gurus and welcome
to Memorizing Management and Governance.
In this lesson, we're going to learn all about managing
and governing your cloud infrastructure.
So, let's get started.
In the past, organizations had to strike a balance
between innovating and maintaining control over costs,
security, and compliance.
AWS management and governance services
aimed to streamline this, so you don't have to work hard
to make that balance, they do it for you.
What I mean is, it's in the AWS's as best interest
to make the management of all of their AWS services
to be as easy and streamlined as possible.
So, they've made additional supporting services
to help out with this.
Let's take a look and see what they have on offer.
Regarding services which assist in account management,
AWS Control Tower is an easy way to set up
and govern a secure multi-account AWS environment.
AWS Organizations provide a way to centrally govern
and manage your environments across multiple AWS accounts
and AWS Budgets will help you improve
your planning and cost control.
Regarding services which make it easier
to provision or create and configure new resources,
AWS CloudFormation lets you model and provision
all of your resources via code,
AWS Service Catalog is a service to create,
organize, and govern your own curated catalog
of AWS products across your organization.
AWS OpsWorks will assist in automating operations
with Chef and Puppet and AWS Marketplace
is where you can find, test, buy,
and deploy software that runs on AWS
and regarding services, which make it easier
to operate your environment, and there's quite a few here.
Amazon CloudWatch allows you to observe your services
via metrics and logging.
AWS Config will allow you to record and evaluate
the configurations of your various AWS resources.
AWS CloudTrial will track all of the user activity
across your AWS account,
extremely important for security investigations.
AWS Systems Manager will allow you to optimize performance
and security while managing a large amount of systems
and Amazon X-ray will help you analyze
and debug production applications.
Again, a huge amount of services in just one small area
of governance and management that AWS
have made available for you, the cloud enthusiast.
We'll cover some more of these in more detail shortly,
so stay tuned.
Thanks for watching, if you have any questions
please let me know.
Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.