Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to Negotiating Networking. In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about the services that exist in the network and
content delivery pillar of AWS. So let's get.
Started. Networking.
In its simplest form is just how we connect computers together,
and the underlying technology and services that allow that to happen.
Plugging computers into each other, uses networking technologies.
Wifi is a network technology,
and there's this other thing built upon these technologies,
where we connect all of the computers together called the internet.
You may have heard of it, but for the internet to work,
there's some very specific technologies and services that need to be in place.
We need IP addresses. We need DNS.
We need routers and we need it to all be secure.
AWS provides services so all these things can happen. And not only that,
AWS also provides services that assist with content delivery.
This means helping you get your website and data out there,
to the users of the internet, who need it in a fast way.
Let's take a look at all the services to do with network and content.
On AWS.
Regarding services for building cloud networks,
Amazon VPC will let you define and provision an isolated network
for your AWS resources.
AWS Transit Gateway lets you connect VPCs and on-premise networks.
AWS Private Link will allow you to provide private connectivity between
VPCs and on-premises applications.
And Amazon Route 53 will let you host your own managed DNS.
Regarding scaling.
Your network,
Elastic Load Balancing lets you automatically distribute network traffic across
a pool of resources.
And AWS Global Accelerator will allow you to direct traffic through the
AWS global network to improve global application performance.
And regarding content delivery,
Amazon CloudFront allows you to securely deliver data, videos,
and applications to customers globally with low latency and high
transfer speeds. So again,
lots of awesome options from AWS to help us achieve what we need
when building our applications and website in the cloud,
this time in regards to networking.
We are going to cover a few of these services in detail in the following
lectures, so stay tuned. If you have any questions,
please let me know. Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.