Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Recognizing Rekognition. In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about Amazon Rekognition. So let's get started.
Amazon Rekognition is a service that allows you to analyze images and videos
with machine learning. It's really simple.
You give it an image and it returns a list of items it thinks it can see in that
image and a confidence percentage to go with it,
which shows you how confident the service is that the item is what it thinks it
is. Let's look at some really simple examples.
I uploaded a photo of my office to Rekognition.
You can see Rekognition analyzed it and has found furniture, table,
desk, computer keyboard, computers, electronics, monitors, and so on.
It's even 56% sure that it found the chair, which we know is correct.
Very cool I think.
This is AWS using machine learning to detect what's in my
photos extremely quickly with their pre-trained machine learning algorithm.
AWS Rekognition has lots of other features, too.
It can help you with image moderation,
automatically detecting adult or violent content in your images,
allowing you to automatically moderate them,
if you show a lot of images on your platform. In this example,
I simply uploaded a picture of a knife and it was 83% sure that it was a
weapon.
It also has a facial analysis feature allowing you to get a thorough
analysis on a picture of someone's face.
Let's see what it said about yours truly. It looks like a face,
so that's good to know. It appears to me male. Right again.
Age 29 to 45. That's correct. I was 35 when this was taken.
Not smiling, calm and not wearing glasses. That's all pretty accurate.
So that feature is pretty cool.
There's also a Celebrity Recognition feature. I tried Donald Glover,
AKA Childish Gambino, and it got it 100% correct. That's very cool.
There's also a face comparison feature allowing you to compare faces,
to see if they match. So I use the same picture of Donald Glover earlier,
and then a group image of the cast of the TV show community.
You can see it hits with a 99.9% match on Donald,
even though he doesn't have a beard in both photos.
It accurately identified the match, and that's very cool.
If you have texts that you want to extract from an image Rekognition can help
with this too. I tried our logo and it easily recognized A Cloud Guru,
which you can then copy and paste out of the image.
And finally Rekognition has a feature where you can automatically detect
personal protective equipment, or PPE.
You can see how this could be very useful in certain industries,
such as construction, or healthcare.
So that's a lot of features packed into this very awesome piece of software,
Amazon Rekognition. It has a million uses,
and I'm sure you can think of one of your own. Personally,
I've written an Amazon Alexa application,
which uses Rekognition to look at an image of a security camera overlooking my
own backyard, and Alexa can tell me with about 99% confidence if I
left my clothes on the clothesline,
and I'll leave a link in the resources section of this lecture,
if you want to read more about how I made that. Thanks for watching.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.