Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Reviewing RDS. In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about Amazon RDS, a relational database service.
So let's get started.
RDS stands for relational database service,
and it lets you create run and scale relational databases in the
cloud.
Relational databases are those where the data stored is related to each other.
For example, you might have a table which stores the students at a school,
the student ID would be stored along with different attributes about the
student, such as their name, date of birth and their home address.
This information can then be queried or searched with structured query
language or SQL. You can say,
give me all the students whose first name is Nick or which students were born in
1994, and it will respond with that list of data for you.
Amazon RDS has six different database engines for you to choose from,
and you may have heard of some of them. RDS users can choose from MySQL,
Maria DB, Microsoft SQL Server.
PostgreSQL, Oracle, and Amazon Aurora.
RDS makes it really easy to set up databases.
It's just a few clicks in the AWS management console.
The databases are easy to administer.
You don't need to set up anything because again, it's a fully managed service.
The databases are highly scalable too.
You can use them across availability zones and some databases even allow you to
create, read-only database replicas.
Giving you a way to increase read throughput for read heavy
database workloads.
Backups are automated and you can even make snapshots of your database,
and you can then turn that snapshot into a new database
itself. RDS also has automatic host replacement.
If any of the compute instances running your database fail,
they're replaced automatically for you,
and you probably won't even notice that issue. It's really cost-effective.
You only pay for what you use and there's no upfront commitment.
There's just a monthly charge for the database instance that you launch,
similar to how EC2 works.
And you can even stop and start the instances for up to seven days at a time to
save money. Even if you've never heard of RDS before today,
there's a good chance that your own account data for an internet service
somewhere in the world lives in a database in Amazon RDS.
Samsung electronics,
moved users of its own Samsung account into RDS,
and that hosts 1.1 billion user accounts,
and they reduce their monthly database costs by 44% in the process,
which I think is awesome. Thank you for watching.
If you have any questions about RDS, please let me know.
Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.