Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to Selecting S3 and S3 Glacier.
In this lesson,
we're going to learn about 2 different types of Amazon's Simple Storage Service.
So let's get started. Amazon Simple Storage Service,
or S3,q is an object storage service.
If you recall our previous lecture, it's the one that looks like this,
where as long as you have the object ID, you can access the file.
It's extremely popular, and it's an industry leading storage service.
If you ask anyone who uses AWS, where they store their files,
I think 99% of the time, the answer is going to be S3.
So let's walk through the benefits. It has industry leading durability.
Amazon S3 is designed for 11 9s of data durability.
11 9s means it's a 99.999 until you have
11 nines in that number available,
and that basically means you aren't going to lose a file if it's stored in
S3.
Actually the likelihood of an asteroid hitting the data center becomes more
likely than a file getting lost,
and that's probably so unlikely that you don't have to even plan for it.
But planning AWS did,
and the way they maintain your files is that when you store something in S3,
the service automatically stores copies of the same file in multiple systems
across multiple data centers.
This gives you the data wherever you need it whenever you need it,
and it's protected against failures, errors, and.
Threats. S3 also.
Has different storage classes and you can actually pay for different levels of
storage, depending on how secure you need your data to be.
You can actually save money by sacrificing performance.
So obviously we have the S3 Standard storage class.
Then there's S3 Standard-Infrequent and S3 One Zone-Infrequent
access storage for data you want to store, but not access frequently.
And then there's S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive,
which are aimed at long-term archival,
and I'll talk about these a bit more in a moment.
And there's also Amazon S3 Intelligent Tiering,
which will try to automatically save you money by moving objects between the
4 different access tiers when your usage patterns.
Change. All of these different.
Storage service classes have different features.
You don't have to look too closely here as I'll link the relevant website in the
resources section of the lecture below.
They use a different amount of availability zones,
or they might have minimum storage duration charges, or retrieval fees.
Again,
AWS provide multiple options for different organizations and you can choose
what's best for you.
Next I'd like to talk to you more about S3 Glacier.
While S3 is designed around frequently accessed data,
S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive are designed
around data archival and long-term backup.
These are extremely cheap options for data you don't need to access quickly.
If you're happy to wait from 12 to 48 hours to get your files,
you can store data for as little as $1 per terabyte per month in
S3 Deep Archive, which is an amazing price.
Glacier also provides a query-in-place functionality,
which means you can actually run analytics on your archive data,
where it's stored.
You don't have to remove the data from the archive to query it.
When the time to get your data has come,
S3 Glacier has 3 different data retrieval options.
Standard retrieval is a low-cost way to get your data within a few hours,
so it's ideal for restoring backup data.
Bulk retrieval is for cost-effective retrieval of large amounts of data for
non-urgent use cases and Expedited retrieval allows you to quickly
access your data. So that's our summary of Amazon S3 and S3 Glacier.
A relatively simple service where you can store and retrieve files,
but with lots of options provided by AWS,
so you can customize the storage solution exactly how your
organization requires it. Thanks for watching. If you have any questions,
please let me know. Otherwise, feel free to move on to the next lesson.