Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Solving Storage Gateway. In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about AWS Storage Gateway. So let's get started.
AWS Storage Gateway is a service which gives you access to virtually
unlimited cloud storage, but on-premises.
So at your office or in your data center,
and it's actually 3 different storage gateways,
which work in their own different way to replace traditional storage solutions.
So let's take a look at all 3. The first is file gateway.
The file gateway gives you SMB and NFS interfaces to Amazon
S3. What this means is that in both windows and Linux,
you will have a file system,
which looks like a normal network drive attached to your system.
Your system writes files to them and the file gateway stores them in Amazon S3,
which can then be used with any other AWS service,
which interfaces with S3 like machine learning services, analytics,
or even AWS Lambda.
This is basically a way of getting any local application you use to store its
data in the cloud, even if it was only programmed to store files locally.
The storage gateway takes care of putting the files in the cloud for you
completely transparent to the application.
The next storage gateway is called Tape Gateway,
which presents a virtual tape library on your local network,
and this is useful for companies who are still backing up their files to type,
but want to move to the cloud.
Not only does it provide the virtual tape library on your network,
it's compatible with all major backup software,
so there's even less effort involved for your organization.
The tape contents are stored in S3,
and you can even implement S3 Glacier,
or S3 Deep Archive for longtime file archival.
This is such a great service if you're looking to move your organization's
backups to the cloud, and you're already using backup software and tape drives.
Once running,
you can do away with all the expensive tape drives and their related hardware
failures, offsite storage costs, and constant maintenance needs,
and you can do that just by clicking a few things in the AWS Storage Gateway
console. The final storage gateway is Volume Gateway.
Volume Gateway is a service that presents an iSCSI block storage volume
to your on-premises applications.
It stores and manages on-premises data in Amazon S3 on your behalf,
and it operates in either a stored mode, or a cached mode.
In cached mode,
your primary data is stored in S3 and the most frequently accessed
data is stored locally for low latency access. In the stored mode,
all of the data is stored locally while also being backed up to S3
asynchronously.
All three of these services provide the customer with a fantastic hybrid cloud
storage service,
which can really assist in making the transition to AWS by
kickstarting the data transfer process, and making that process seamless.
It also includes highly optimized and efficient data transfer mechanisms,
bandwidth management, and automatic network resilience,
making sure nothing goes wrong. Okay,
I hope you've enjoyed learning about AWS Storage Gateway. Thanks for watching.
If you have any questions, please let me know. Otherwise feel free to move on.