Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to Studying Storage. In this lesson,
we're going to learn all about the AWS Storage pillar, so let's get started.
Quite simply, cloud storage refers to using cloud services,
to put your data in the cloud,
then you're given various tools so you can access that data in
different ways. First,
we need a quick rundown on the different types of storage that exist.
The first type is file-based storage.
This is the traditional storage type, which most people will be familiar with,
and it's what your home computer uses.
You give files a name and organize them in folders under directories and
subdirectories. It's an easy way to store files,
but once you approach a very large amounts of files,
it can be difficult to find and organize them.
The second type is block storage and block storage is where files are split into
chunks of data, of equal size,
and they're stored in raw storage volumes.
These are typically used by server-based operating systems,
which then manage those volumes and can use them as individual hard drives.
It's common for use with databases, email servers,
and is ideal for RAID systems where blocks are stored over multiple
disks, which present as a single volume to the operating system.
Virtual machines also tend to use block storage as file systems for the
operating systems inside their virtual machines.
The third type of storage is newer and it's really useful in cloud-based
storage, and this is Object storage.
Object storage is where files are stored in, as it says in the name, objects,
and these objects are given a unique identifier and are stored in a flat memory
model.
What this means is that instead of traversing directories searching for files,
you can simply present the unique identifier to the object storage,
and it will give you the file and it makes it so much easier to find a file in a
large pool of data.
It doesn't matter if the file is in a local server or is on the other side of
the planet, if you have that unique identifier,
the file is retrieved in exactly the same way.
Now these are the three common types of storage encountered in a cloud
environment, explained in the most basic way.
There are of course more complexities to all of them,
but that's all you need to know about for now. Now, of course,
AWS offer a complete range of services for you to access, govern,
and analyze your data. You can choose from object, file,
and block storage services,
as well as backup and data migration options.
Let's take a look at what they have on offer regarding file storage.
A service for scalable, elastic,
and cloud native network file systems is Amazon Elastic File System
and a fully managed file storage built on windows server is Amazon FSx
for windows file server. Regarding block storage,
we have easy to use high-performance block storage at any
scale, which is Amazon Elastic Block Store,
more commonly known as EBS,
and this is what Amazon EC2 uses to store all of its.
Files.
Regarding object storage,
we have a service built to store and retrieve any amount of data from
anywhere in the world, and that's Amazon Simple Storage Service,
better known as Amazon S3, and we'll have a full lecture on this in a moment.
We also have a few other storage services. Regarding backup,
there's a service to centrally manage and automate backups across
AWS services, and that's called AWS Backup.
Then we have some data transfer-related services.
A hybrid cloud storage that provides on-premise access to virtually unlimited
cloud storage is AWS Storage Gateway.
A service to allow you to easily transfer data to and from AWS up to
10 times faster than normal, is AWS Data Sync.
And then there's another group of services which allow you to simply and
seamlessly transfer files to Amazon S3 using
SFTP, FTP, and FTPS,
and that's the AWS Transfer family.
As you can see again,
you talk about 1 topic and AWS have about 5 to 10 services to suit your
every need. In the next few lessons,
we're going to take a look at a few of these in a bit more detail.
Thanks for watching. If you have any questions, please let me know.
Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.