Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to Valuing VPC.
In this lesson, we're going to learn
all about Amazon Virtual Private Cloud,
also known as Amazon VPC,
so let's get started.
Every computer that's linked to another computer,
whether it's via a single cable, a switch router,
or tin can Wi-Fi antenna,
requires a network interface to be configured.
The network interface is the bridge between your computer
and the technology used to connect to the other computer.
So you may have a network port on your home PC
or your laptop, then you plug a cable into that port,
and then you plug the other end of that port
into another computer or into a switch,
and you create a network between the 2 devices.
You then need to configure the network.
To do this, you need to set up an IP address range,
which will be used by yourself
and the other computers on the same network.
An IP address range is kind of like a local gated community,
where your computers can only talk to other computers
in the same community.
Now, I'll have to teach you a little bit about networking,
just in case you aren't too familiar with it.
In a typical local network,
we generally use IPv4, which gives us four sets of numbers
from 0 to 254, separated by a dot.
So there's 255 of them.
Some of these addresses are agreed by internet authorities
to work only for private networks.
These are the ones that start
with 10, 172.16 to 31, or 192. 168.
So you may decide that you want your IP address range
to be 10.0.0.0 to 10.0.0.255.
This means that you will create a local network
of 10.0.0.0/24.
And at this stage, don't worry about what the /24 means.
It's not really relevant to this course.
Now that we have chosen our local network,
I can explain what Amazon Virtual Private Cloud is.
Amazon VPC lets you create a virtual network
for your AWS services to exist in a local IP address range
using that local network.
That gated community I mentioned,
VPC is your own little gated community
for your virtual machines and other services in AWS.
When you create a VPC, the page looks something like this.
You give it a name, then you specify the local network,
referred to here as an IPv4 CIDR block.
The example given is even the same example
that we picked already.
So this is what we create with VPC.
And now we have our gated community,
we can create some EC2 servers,
and when you create an EC2 server,
AWS asks what VPC you want to join.
You'll pick the one you created,
and then if you have multiple servers in the same VPC,
they can then talk to each other.
A VPC also has other features too.
Of course, it's likely you want your virtual machines
to be able to access the internet,
so you can add something called a NAT gateway.
If you want the internet
to be able to access your EC2 instances,
you can add something called an internet gateway.
And VPCs also have something called network ACLs
or access control lists.
And this is where you control which traffic is allowed
into and out of your VPC network.
And they all have configuration options too.
So I believe it's safe to say,
if you're going to move to AWS,
either for your organization or just to try it out yourself,
one of your very first stops
is going to be the Amazon VPC console
to see which VPCs are created by default
in a new AWS account that you can use,
or to create your very own VPC,
ready for you to launch your new EC2 instances into.
Okay, thank you for watching.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
Otherwise, feel free to move on to the next lesson.